Hawaii Google Maps Reviews 🏝️
This dataset contains Google Maps reviews of various locations in Hawaii. It was originally scraped and used by the authors of these papers:
https://aclanthology.org/2022.acl-long.426.pdf
,
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.00422
. The full dataset is quite long, so we will only be using the 10-core one.
Getting the Data
There are two files:
review-Hawaii_10.json.gz
Link
Column
Description
user_id
ID of the reviewer
name
name of the reviewer
time
time of the review (unix time)
rating
rating of the business
text
text of the review
pics
pictures of the review
resp
business response to the review including unix time and text of the response
gmap_id
ID of the business
meta-Hawaii.json.gz
Link
Column
Description
name
name of the business
address
address of the business
gmap_id
ID of the business
description
description of the business
latitude
latitude of the business
longitude
longitude of the business
category
category of the business
avg_rating
average rating of the business
num_of_reviews
number of reviews
price
price of the business
hours
open hours
MISC
MISC information
state
the current status of the business (e.g., permanently closed)
relative_results
relative businesses recommended by Google
url
URL of the business
You can read more about the datasets
here
.
Note that these datasets are zipped (
.gzip
) and are
.json
s instead of
.csv
files. It is recommended to unzip them manually first, and then use
pd.read_json
to turn it into a pandas DataFrame. You will also have to add the argument
lines=True
since the data is one json object per line. It is also recommended to use
engine='pyarrow'
to speed up reading.
pd.read_json(path, lines=True, engine='pyarrow')
Example Questions and Prediction Problems
Feel free to base your exploration into the dataset in Steps 1-4 around one of these questions, or come up with a question of your own.
What location category has the lowest reviews? Highest number of reviews? What insight can you extract from this information?
Position yourself as someone who wants to open a business in Hawaii. Using the data provided, can you generate some insight into what makes a successful business? To try to answer this question, you could focus on one category or zip code.
What are the most common words in restaurant names? Do certain names correlate with higher ratings?
Look up particularly trendy/touristy areas in Hawaii. Do zip codes in these areas tend to have higher ratings? Higher prices? More number of reviews?
How do business response behaviors (response rate, response time, and response sentiment) influence future customer ratings and review volume? This could help determine whether active customer engagement measurably improves business performance.
Feel free to use one of the prompts below to build your predictive model in Steps 5-8, or come up with a prediction task of your own.
Predict a location’s rating based on its zip code, ratings, and/or other features. This could help prospective business owners gauge their chance of success.
Predict whether a business is at risk of becoming permanently closed.
Predict whether a business will respond to a customer review and estimate the response delay. This models customer engagement practices at the business level.
If you are interested in recommender systems: predict which businesses a user is most likely to review highly.
Special Considerations
The dataset we provide here was reduced to extract the 10-core, such that each of the remaining users and items have 10 reviews each. You should think about how this effects any analyses you do and what kind of biases might be introduced.
Make sure to inspect the data type/format of each column. You might find some of them are oddly formatted compared to what you have encountered in DSC80 so far. Clean them and you might be able to extract more useful features.
If you plan to use geographical features, you should think about how to feed those features into your model. Can you use raw latitude/longitude directly? Or maybe it’s better to one-hot encode the zip codes instead? Maybe you could engineer features like distance to downtown or the beach? Or run some sort of clustering algorithm like K-means?